TODO.md, before:

# Persist
- [ ] Enable deletion of previous missions var to save space/reset progress for future play throughs.  
- [ ] Saving any vehicles in a named trigger area???  
- [ ] Ace interaction to manually save data as well.  
- [ ] Maybe in mission display if data is saved?  
- [ ] Capturable vehicles that persist if they are in a trigger?  
- [ ] Some way to see what vehicles were persisted??
- [ ] Add check for inventory generation what does not execute the code if persist and inventory persist are enabled.

# General 
- [ ] Maybe research eden modules again and see if you can make one that is placed and linked to the end mission trigger to setup perisit saving and end mission
- [ ] allow choosing initial and respawn loadouts in object attributes
- [ ] look into implementing infinite fuel as an attribute and spawn script so each vehicle doesnt get it's own loop (Arctic Passage)

# Research
- [ ] research a event handler to make more tank hits kill us and less tank hits kill them (just make our vehicles more tough)

Commit message:

Updated inv gen code to not run if persist load enabled; added menu link to github.

TODO.md, after:

# Persist
- [ ] Enable deletion of previous missions var to save space/reset progress for future play throughs.  
- [ ] Saving any vehicles in a named trigger area???  
- [ ] Ace interaction to manually save data as well.  
- [ ] Maybe in mission display if data is saved?  
- [ ] Capturable vehicles that persist if they are in a trigger?  
- [ ] Some way to see what vehicles were persisted??
- [X] Add check for inventory generation what does not execute the code if persist and inventory persist are enabled.

# General 
- [ ] Maybe research eden modules again and see if you can make one that is placed and linked to the end mission trigger to setup perisit saving and end mission
- [ ] allow choosing initial and respawn loadouts in object attributes
- [X] look into implementing infinite fuel as an attribute and spawn script so each vehicle doesnt get it's own loop (Arctic Passage)
- [X] add menu link to github

# Research
- [ ] research a event handler to make more tank hits kill us and less tank hits kill them (just make our vehicles more tough)
- [ ] have some kind of slider to increase damage to enemy armor?
